# Hangman

This is a Hangman game, where the computer thinks of a word and the user tries to guess it within a certian number of attempts. 

## Table of Contents
- [Description](#description)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [File Structure](#file-structure)
- [License](#license)

## Description
This project is a Hangman game in Python. The aim of the game is to guess the word generated by the computer by suggesting letters within a certain number of attempts. This project was created to practice Python programming and consolidate further key concepts such as classes, loops, and user input handling using VScode. 

The main things I learnt creating this game was classes and use of methods within classes. 

## Installation
1. Clone this repository: `git clone https://github.com/Ptm15/hangman59.git`
2. Navigate to the project directory: `cd hangman59`
3. Install dependencies, if any: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Usage
To play the Hangman game:
1. Ensure you have Python installed on your machine.
2. Run the game: `python hangman.py`
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to guess letters and play the game.

## File Structure
hangman59/
│
├── .gitignore
├── README.md
├── milestone_2.py
├── milestone_3.py
├── milestone_4.py
└── milestone_5.py


## Example Code used

```python
# Creating my list with my favourite fruits
word_list = ["apple", "orange", "kiwi", "mango", "cherry"]

# Creating my hangman class
class Hangman:
    def __init__(self, word_list, num_lives=5):
        self.word_list = word_list
        self.num_lives = num_lives
        self.word = random.choice(word_list)
        self.word_guessed = ['_' for _ in self.word]
        self.num_letters = len(set(self.word))  # Count of unique letters
        self.list_of_guesses = []

# Method to ask the user for input of a single character that is alphabetical 
    def ask_for_input(self):
        while True:
            guess = input("Guess a letter: ")
            if len(guess) != 1 or not guess.isalpha():
                print("Invalid letter. Please, enter an alphabetical character")
            elif guess in self.list_of_guesses:
                print("You already tried that letter!")
            else:
                self.check_guess(guess)
                # Appends the guess to list_of_guesses
                self.list_of_guesses.append(guess)
                break




